Yeah, you can get started. Thank you.
Oh, yeah.
Okay, thank you so much.
We are also complete from our side
because Rudiger won't be able to join due
to some parallel meeting,
so he won't be able to attend,
but he has provided all necessary details
in the slide and
He also asked me,
you can actually contact him back if
there are any open questions. Yeah,
whatever we can cover,
we will share it with you. But otherwise,
if there are any project specific
questions, Rajesh, if you have,
like you can, we can have a follow up.
call or something that is what he has
mentioned. Sorry,
it was also needed to be covered in these
two days itself because Wednesday, I mean,
we have public holidays in between and
there is a bridge holiday. So again,
it will get delayed.
So that's why we decided to have it now.
Right.
Okay, then we'll start.
So tomorrow he's there, right?
Uh, both days.
More of this another call, uh, yeah, yeah,
for handover, right?
Yeah,
there is another call for the is the long
text notes related persistency related
topic that we have another call. Yeah,
Help me.
Okay. Okay.
but in both.
Yeah, yeah.
meetings we have he has a another palette
meeting at that same time so he won't be
able to join.
But I have already reviewed the slides
with him and he also mentioned that he
can you can have a direct call with him
And if you give the same?
if there are any doubts about the scope.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay, then we'll start. So let's do,
this is the planned agenda.
So first of all,
thanks a lot for all the colleagues who
have joined and for the new team who is
actually planning to take over the topics.
And we are very happy about this because
you can also contribute to this
particular
these two topics. So let's start.
So the agenda is as follows.
I'll try to give an overview about the
GXP topic and whatever we know about it.
So GXP is actually quite a big topic,
I would say.
There are a lot of parallel projects
ongoing on this particular topic.
Wherever purchase order comes into
picture is what we will talk in detail.
And we will talk about the project scope
and some solution overview slides that we
have from the GXP colleagues.
And we will actually discuss a bit in
detail about the ongoing topics in GXP,
like e-signature and CGTO.
topic and I have also collected all the
contact details and also some links for
the wiki guidelines and everything.
So yeah, so let's talk about the GXP.
So you would have already heard about GXP
a lot and a lot of S4 HANA development
calls and everything because this is one
of the main topic that is actually
getting on board into S4. So.
It's mainly GXP is actually mainly kind
of compliance or a standard for quality
quality standard for the regulations and
guidelines which have to be followed by
these manufacturing practise or the
medical or clinical practise and all
those. So
This is more like a compliance, yeah,
right?
Because it also have to ensure about this
patient safety and the product quality,
etc.
So complying with the GXP regulations is
actually a prerequisite.
So this is why in S4HANA,
if you look at S4HANA,
this GXP is not at all in place as of now.
I mean, yeah,
this is actually the project scope
actually for this. And in 2025,
if you see in Cloud ERP,
GXP is not at all enabled because it has
a lot of compliance aspects as well.
So we will actually talk about these two
topics, e-signature integration.
And also S/4HANA extension for life
science applications.
This is where the CGTO comes into picture.
Yeah, to talk about this GXP name.
This is the first thing that we learned
when we started with the project is about
X stand for different industries like
manufacturing, clinical,
laboratory or something. So
It's like good manufacturing practice,
good clinical practice, etc.
This is what ZXP mainly stands for.
So this is the slide that I got from
Ruediger about the project scope.
So if you see in 2025.
This was actually not enabled at all and
2026 is where if you see the project
scope of 2602 and 2608,
the mainly the discussion started about
enabling CXP and this is where.
we were like kind of having few
discussions about this GXP topic.
So first, when we started with this,
this would be only knew that we had to
support GXP Enablement.
We were not aware much about like what is
the stand for and where we come into
picture. This was not clear for us.
So at first,
we were actually invited for this
eSignature topic.
We understood that e-signature is one of
the prerequisites to enable any of these
kind of industries in S4.
So that's why e-signature comes into
picture in the beginning.
So this is already available in BTP.
e-signature as a SaaS service is already
available in BTP.
So what they are trying to do is.
integrating e-signature into this cloud
ERP.
So that is the process that is where we
were actually involved to understand what
is the architecture side of it and how
they are planning to do the integration
and how from the product perspective.
from other application side,
what are the changes that we have to do
to make sure that e-signatures are
integrated in our LOB specific
application.
This is where we were involved in the
beginning. Then we were also involved.
So here you can see that which are the
applications which are
Affected like purchase requisition,
purchase order, process orders,
material document, sales order, etc. So,
what I remember is that they actually
took a purchase order and sales order as
an example in the beginning when they
started with some POCs and the design
discussions, so...
They took this purchase order and sales
order as the example and they started
with the all these discussions with LOBs.
The ACT is already.
kind of reviewed and completed.
And then it comes into in 2027,
mostly it comes into,
so in BTP the e-signature is already
available. So they do complete,
as per my understanding in 2608,
they completed the,
they made sure that it is.
integrated in S4 as well.
And now the plan is to have these EC
signatures enabled by the LOPs,
by all these applications which are
affected.
And then this is planned for 2702.
And then in parallel, the CGTO colleagues,
CGTO is.
It maybe stands for the cell gene therapy
of some kind of industry.
So they have this e-signature as a
prerequisite,
and they are also trying to see how they
can actually integrate their own fields
into LOB specific applications.
So this is what we are mainly involved in.
So this is a bit old slide.
I am not so sure whether this is actually
any of these things have changed,
but most of the things which are planned
for 2027 is actually correct. Okay. And
Then the overall solution overview.
So you,
we already know that we have this CPS for
HANA public cloud solution and then BTPs,
BTP,
they have this e-signature reusable
service is already available.
And in CPS one public cloud,
we have different
Way of creating these business objects,
for example. So, this is a wrong example,
actually speaking.
This was part of their slide. So,
for example,
some applications may have this theory
wrap application, but in our case,
the example that is given is not there
because managed purchase order.
It's not completely an app based
application.
So then some applications may have this
web QA application like we have ME21N.
Then both applications will be there and
then they want to actually integrate this
e-signature in all these applications
level.
But we had a lot of discussions about
this,
in which application layer they want to
have e-signature enabled at the beginning,
once this is e-signature services already
available in SAP S/4HANA.
But we also decided.
Not to invest? Yeah, Rajesh,
I will come come to you once I finish the
slide. So,
we decided not to invest much on the
manage purchase order app,
because that is actually a little bit
outdated,
and also we are kind of working on it.
modernised concept on this.
So once that is enabled,
they can actually enable e-signature in
that. That is the idea.
And but as a first step,
they will start with their gear
application. So that is ME 21 N.
So from purchase order side,
the idea is to start with ME 21 N.
And other applications will not be
enabled as of now,
but for other business objects like sales
order and all those,
they are planning to enable it in other
areas as well.
But this is not planned for purchase
order side. Yes, Rajesh.
Yeah,
so under which category does the manage
purchase order app stand?
You said it's not a true Fury app, right?
So how do we call our manage purchase
order app as seven?
What kind of technology is it a Bob app
or?
So, it's a based on both.
Yeah,
so ideally the example manage purchase
Yeah.
order should come in the above app, right?
Okay.
Yes, yes, yeah.
So this was taken from their Vikas.
So this is actually a screenshot and not
a slide. So we just took it,
but that was just an example.
They actually thought that this is based
on wrap, wrap based app, but it is not.
So it was,
we had a lot of discussion with these
signature colleagues to.
understand whether they want to enable
everything in one shot itself and they
are doing a phased approach, is it fine?
So then we decided to have a phased
approach,
start with ME21 and then we also had this
modernization discussion ongoing at that
time itself.
So if we are coming up with the new UI.
Again, it will be a rework for them,
so it makes sense to have it in a
completely new UI later that this idea.
But,
but till the point that the customers
will use the new wrap modern PO app,
customers will still use the manage
purchase order app. So,
why are we not enabling this digital
signature feature on the, you know,
the BOF app?
Is there any technical constraint or is
it just a matter of saving?
Fine.
Mm.
Time effort.
Okay,
the discussions happened almost like nine
months back. They wanted to, I mean,
they wanted to do POCs and in the
beginning,
but I exactly don't remember why it was
Okay.
decided only for ME21 and but.
We mentioned that there are these
problems and also, okay,
another thing is that manage purchase
order app is not having the feature
parity with the May 21 N.
If there are anything,
any of the features which have not
supported in manage purchase order app
and but we enable.
the industry specific, I mean,
is CGT or industry specific solution in
that, maybe some feature is not supported,
then it will not be complete.
Yeah.
So we already had this feature parity
issue.
That is why we are coming up with this
modernization concept.
But the idea is that the.
new modern UI will have,
it has to have the feature parity,
at least in a phased approach,
it will have that. So that is the idea.
That.
I recently had a demo from Manage Sales
Order app as well from the digital
signature.
They showed how along with the change
document,
the signature is also captured on Manage
Sales Order version 2 app.
I think that's a wrap, Fury wrap app,
Mhm.
right?
Yes, yes.
But then are they also enabling the same
digital signature feature for their web
Mm.
GUI app like V01 and V03 for example?
I remember that they were planning to do
it in Fury, I mean Fury app,
Yeah, yeah.
Only Fury.
because it is completely app based.
I don't know whether, Nils,
Uh-huh.
are you there in the call?
Yeah,
so regarding whether this is enabled and
not,
I think this was also with regards to
maybe the decision of the CTTO colleagues
on where they would also do the other
extensions that are needed for their
processes.
And there was an the decision,
so they needed at least for the,
What?
so first of all, for the OData API,
because they want to, well,
create purchase orders from the outside.
And then second, they said,
we also need to.
change the documents, but here they said,
oh,
we don't want to invest here into
extension of the manage purchase order
app. So the Bob-based Fiori app,
because kind of it has an.
additional technology if you want to
extend the BOP. And they said, okay,
for the time being,
we go with a web GUI approach.
So this is kind of, well, old technology.
And then once something new is available,
then we go for the
Um, the right, the final approach.
This was my understanding,
Yeah.
Ohh.
and so they said, so they said, OK,
then we need the.
So.
The e-signature, at least in the web GUI,
since here we assume we do the processing
of our documents.
And we first do not target here,
then the Bob app manage, the Fiori app,
yeah, Bob-based Fiori app.
Okay.
So, so Neil, sir,
anytime will the Bob app come into
picture even later? I,
it's not it's not decided or is it out of
Oh.
scope altogether?
It's, I would say, it's...
I don't know whether it was ever decided,
but it's not currently not in scope and
Okay.
well, we for sure try to avoid it.
So this was kind of, yeah.
At least the initial phase,
it is not planned at all.
Yeah.
And we don't know whether there will be
any particular case which can come in
future where they are telling that we
have to also do it for Bob Fab.
Yeah.
Because the idea was that for the
industry,
they will have a separate item and they
will have a separate
I am authorization like separate role
altogether or something and then where
they kind of enable only the ones which
are e-signature enabled.
So when CGTO is coming into place then
they will only make those applications
available to the customers which are like.
E-signature enabled - that is what they
mentioned to us when we asked about these
details, but then we went ahead with,
yeah, the SAP approach,
at least for the initial phases,
but we are not aware about what,
whether there will be any case where this
is has to be also included, yeah.
OK,
just one question: Is there is there some
other, you know,
unit or LOB that has already enabled this
digital signature on our web GUI app,
so that we can, you know,
draw parallels and make our development
quicker, faster?
So, for sales order was planning,
but it was only for the other query app,
but you can always talk with this
e-signature colleagues as well,
because they were actually in touch with
the LOBs, who, so we can actually, yeah.
Okay.
Who are they actually? I mean,
PM and architects, many names.
I have provided the details in the last
slide. Yeah, OK.
Okay. All right. Thanks.
So let's go further.
So this is the overall project setup.
There are different,
I think we can call it as work streams.
Yeah.
So e-signature and change document
Enablement.
This is the first one where they had this
discussion in initial 2020.
Five, and then also further,
so this is where one of the place where
we come into picture,
where because here e-signature is
actually e-signature integration on
Friend Runner apps in 2702 that is sales
order, purchase order.
I'm also not so sure whether these are
already there in Friend Runner app.
This was a,
I know that sales order and purchase
order is what they have.
mostly discussed.
So we come in this first of all,
and then we will also be a part of the
third one where CGTO Enablement is coming
into picture in 2702. Yeah,
there are other.
parallel work streams which are ongoing,
but yeah,
mostly what is relevant for us is these
two, the stream one and three.
So whatever meetings that we had in most
of the meetings,
we were trying to do the recording and
also those details we tried to
consolidate it in one wiki.
I will also share with you all the
details about that.
And there were a few discussions.
ad hoc calls that we had,
but which were not recorded,
What would?
but most of the things and meeting
minutes are already uploaded in that wiki.
I want to mention this for the.
So I will be sharing those details as
well.
And the link is already provided in this
presentation. Okay, so.
Maybe we'll go to the next one.
Just one question before we go ahead,
right? So from the slide,
Um...
Yes, Shweta.
the roadmap mentions that the change
document Enablement in LOB Front Runner
apps is completed right in 2608 and was
the were purchase orders and purchase
requisitions also part of the delivery?
This concept of an issue.
Yes.
Yeah,
purchase order was definitely a part of
Yeah.
MM.
that.
So the change document was already
It.
enabled.
It was just that we had to actually just
Mhm.
cheque whether the change document is
working fine.
Mm.
So we actually did a kind of complete
testing of the change document.
So they have provided us a list of.
which are relevant for change document
and then we did a testing.
So everything was working fine.
So we didn't have to do anything as a
part of 2608.
We just have to make sure that the change
document is working fine because
e-signature concept is done on top of
I am *******.
change document concept. So that's why.
Okay.
Yeah.
The.
Yeah, thank you.
That I forgot to mention that here.
So this is already done.
So only now it is on the pending part is
only about enablement of e-signature on
that side. Yeah.
So these work streams that you mentioned,
one, two, three, 4, 5, 6, right? I mean,
so we have to participate in all these
work streams to understand what's going
I'm sorry.
on.
I am, we are,
we from the engineering side,
we are actually participating in this
e-signature one. Whenever there is a call,
we are being invited and we are attending
it, but otherwise,
only when the LOB specifics,
I am not too sure whether Ruediger is
attending any of the.
direct work stream calls.
I'm not so sure about that.
Maybe this one,
this question I can take it to Ruediger,
whether he's attending it from the PM
side or not. As of now,
Okay.
we only attend whenever they want
engineering specific inputs,
they will actually, I mean,
Ruediger will forward us the meeting
Yes.
requests.
And then we participate in that,
so we normally participate in one and
three, and that on that particular topic,
like when CGT comes in to picture,
then we are in,
and also e-signature in purchase order
comes in to picture, we are in, yeah.
The.
So is only digital signature the scope in
2702 but I mean.
No, CG to your last name.
See you to also, OK.
Yes.
So, CGTO will come and validate.
Is it like some some kind of a external
validation we need to conduct?
How do we ascertain that we have
completed our task?
No, so for both sides,
we had the ACD review from their side.
Thank you.
I mean,
we have done a review of the ACDs and we
had a few discussions with those
colleagues. They are, I mean,
they are doing POCs,
like how to enable it with the existing.
APIs and also web GUI and all those,
whether they can do this particular one
is what they are doing.
But external validation,
I am not too sure about that, Rajesh.
Yeah.
Yes, okay.
I can, anyway, cheque it,
cheque it with Ruediger, if that is, yeah.
Yeah.
Ruediger.
Okay, um...
Right, I will, I will remember this. OK,
fine, then we'll go to the next slide.
This is the overall chart organisation
chart,
because there are different teams
involved. So, from if you see here,
the different bug streams.
Yeah.
work stream one.
We were mostly getting in discussion with
Swarnava Chatterjee. He's the main person,
conduct person for this e-signature topic
Okay.
and also some more colleagues from that
list actually like Yadish, Navin Kumar,
Good.
those.
people were also involved in the
discussion and also from LS application
integration.
We were mainly in discussing with Satish
Kumar and Viswanath Natesan.
They are from the PM and architecture
side.
There are a few more colleagues who are
involved. Yeah, maybe the complete.
list is not there,
but the main colleagues are already there,
so you can directly contact them.
I have also listed their e-mail IDs at
Yeah.
the last slide,
whom we were in touch with personally,
for more details and also from the
engineering side, whoever was involved,
I have.
Provided the links at the last, OK?
Well,
you said the CGTO colleagues are also
mentioned. Where are they mentioned?
CGTO is actually Satish Kumar and in
slide three, I mean, work stream three,
Satish Kumar and Vishal Naganathan.
We were in touch with them.
Okay.
I think Arvind was also there,
but we were mostly talking with Satish
and Viswanath.
And there is an engineering team involved
as well. So through them,
we were getting in touch with the
engineering team who are sitting in China.
And then, yeah,
those details are already provided in the
last.
The.
OK, fine.
One basic question,
sorry if you already covered this,
Yes, Shweta, no problem.
but yeah,
can you maybe a bit elaborate on what
CTTO stands for and how it relates to the
POE signature topic?
So I'm unable to correlate these two.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
So e-signature is a prerequisite for any
of such industries. I mean,
CGTO stands for the cell gene therapy,
which comes in this medical,
this pharmaceutical related things.
Mhm.
So for all these solutions to be
available in this form,
we have to make sure that e-signature is
enabled.
E-signature,
maybe I will go to the next slide,
which will actually explain more about it.
So this is actually a kind of compliance,
which we have to do from S4 side to make
sure that these other industries coming
to S4. So the main purpose is that
Any change that we are doing in the very
simple terms, if we say in purchase order,
if we do any change in some of,
we have a list of fields, okay,
which are e-signature relevant.
So they have provided us the list of
fields.
So any change that is happening to these
fields have to be recorded.
with the e-signature saying that, okay,
this is actually changed by or changed on
this particular date.
Maybe you can also provide a note saying
that this is the reason for the change,
something like that.
This particular log has to be stored
somewhere and this log has to be visible
to the.
I mean,
anyone should be able to go and cheque
the log as well and verify, okay,
why this particular change was done.
No.
And this is not relevant for all fields
in purchase order,
but they have a list of fields that are
provided.
Most of the fields are from industry
specific fields. For example,
Hello.
when CGTO is enabled.
then those fields also need to have this
e-signature feature enabled,
plus PO have some code fields which also
have to be considered.
So e-signature is like a prerequisite for
any of these industries to come into S4.
So yeah, so Nils have another meeting,
so he will drop out.
But if you have any further questions
also,
I can take it down and ask them later.
Yeah. Yeah, so this is how it is related.
Okay.
So e-signature is like a base for
everything,
all in all these kind of industries to
come into S4. e-signature is the base.
So e-signature have to be enabled in all
these business subjects.
Once it is enabled,
only once this is enabled.
So e-signature is normally,
what I have seen is that when they
Yeah.
presented it,
it is mainly when UI is involved. Okay,
even for APIs,
we have this more data before APIs,
Okay.
which can be used to create this purchase
orders.
Even for that, there may be a concept,
but there will be that concept will be
kind of central. Maybe per API,
we don't have to do any Enablement.
That is the idea. OK,
we also had a lot of questions how they
are going to do it for API level,
and also, for example, tool integration.
I mean,
these are the other ways of creating
these purchase orders, right? APIs,
we can also use tool to create these
business objects. So what is,
how will they capture this ECG?
It was one of our questions as well.
But what they have mentioned is that
first time they are actually going to
focus only on the.
UI side,
but in API level also they will come up
with some central concept for which they
are already in discussion with the BTP
colleagues and also from API side as well.
They are also in test with them and they
are having further discussions about that,
how to enable the same.
Now,
CGTO is an industry which is actually
coming into S4 once your signature is in
place. So,
CGTO is they have they also have
something in BTP as well,
and they will have an integration with,
so they would like to actually.
enhance the purchase order business
object with their own specific fields as
well.
And everything will be e-signature
enabled. And there will,
whenever there is any change or business
object creation or any particular change
in these fields,
maybe they will like to also.
save it in the database and they will
also have an event trigger from,
an event will be triggered to notify the
BTP side as well.
This is our understanding about CGTU
Enablement.
Did you understand, Shweta,
or do you have?
Nils.
Yeah, yeah, definitely to an extent.
That is, of course,
a bit of an evolving topic. So,
just one follow up to this: So,
Yeah.
when we say support CTTO enhancement,
right? So,
what I missed was to understand,
are we expected to develop this
I.
functionality in the PO application,
or are we supporting another?
No.
life science application that consumes
these dogs. Yeah.
Lea.
Yeah,
we are not enabling CGTO from our side.
We are making sure that the CGTO
colleagues are able to enhance this
Mm-hmm.
business subject through the in web GUI.
Maybe they would like to have another tab
Okay.
for CGTO specific one and they would like
to do the CRUD operations.
Maybe we have the bodies,
whether the bodies are good enough for
Mhm.
their particular requirement.
These are the things that we have to
check. And also from API perspective,
they also,
CGTO also wanted to have the API from the
API side as well.
They want to actually do the enhancement.
Like what kind of architecture side that
we.
will propose to them. Do they have to use,
I mean, do they have to do this extend,
I.
there is an option to extend the B
definitions. Can they do use that?
Is it enabled from our PO perspective?
These are the things that we were working
on mostly. And in the beginning,
they actually told that API has to be
enabled. So we made sure that our.
And their API,
so I will be explaining this in the
upcoming slides anyway, so I,
the end their stack,
whether it is extensible or not,
if we have to make it accessible,
do we have to cheque anything additional,
because,
and what kind of extensibility we are
suggesting to them?
Like in olden days, what we have done is,
like any industry extension have to be
done,
it was directly done on top of echo and
Yes.
echo.
Like they will have an include structures
or something like that,
and that was what was recommended.
So even CGTO had some other plan as well.
So that I will be explaining in the
upcoming.
Coming slide.
Is it? Did it answer your question? Yeah.
Yeah, okay. Yes, yes, yeah.
I think Hasan had a question. Yes,
absolutely.
Yeah, yeah, just like, yeah, no problem.
I was just having again a very basic
Yeah, okay, sorry, I missed it here.
Yeah.
question: What does e-signature contain?
Like,
how it is different from the change
blocks we have?
Yeah,
but we actually had this question in our
first ACD and the ACD review went on for
so many hours, I would say,
and we had separate follow up meetings
for that to discuss it.
So what they have mentioned is that they
don't want the entire change document and
only change document was not enough for
them.
They also wanted the business users to
enter the reason for change,
and then some notes have to be entered,
and also they need the timestamp and
everything.
And that's why this concept is built on
top of change document itself.
It's like kind of extending the change
document details.
with the summary. So it's like they will,
whenever they do any change,
they will get a pop up saying that, okay,
you are changing something which is
e-signature relevant,
so do the e-signature.
So they have to actually enter the reason.
And then this is the compliance,
NS.
this is mandatory for them, it seems.
Because this is about, yeah.
Okay, just to just to summarize,
I think the reason for change will become
mandatory whenever they are changing it
going forward.
That is the one thing which I can
understand,
which was not there as part of change
logs. Is that correct? Okay.
Yes, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, also Hasan, I think change logging,
so typically it's the system that
maintains an audit of the field changes,
right, by recording what changed,
Mm.
Mhm.
who changed it, and when they changed,
right,
based on most of the required fields
based on the analysis.
Okay.
Mhm.
Whereas typically e-signature is
different because it is,
the user must explicitly authenticate if
I understand and it.
provide a reason before the change is
saved. So this is the, I think,
MU.
basic kind of how it is different from
change logging to e-signature. I mean,
you can correct me, I just,
I think this is more or less, yeah, yeah.
Meet.
Mm.
Yeah, you got it.
Yeah, this is the whole concept.
So it's like we also had several
discussions,
but why can't we have something like
change log plus some kind of workflow
approval process, those kind of things.
But at the end,
it was like several LOBs were also
involved in that discussion,
and this is how we decided to have it.
You can also listen to the recording that
is so I have added the wiki over here.
I just open it.
Yeah,
that's absolutely like even we have
restart conditions with are in central
requirement. Whenever we change something,
Yes.
Yes, yes, correct.
it will go for workflow,
where they can workflow can give their
Mhm.
own comments, right?
That is also where we can capture.
Okay.
Get it?
And also these comments,
whatever we are giving,
Nothing.
Yeah.
Correct.
does they go and get stored in only BTP
or on S4 side? Is there anywhere?
Yeah.
They get stored.
30.
They had the database design,
everything was mentioned at the ECD.
So I am not so sure in the signature
whether we will have our own.
I actually don't remember because this
happened last year, the ECD review.
So ECD has all the details.
Yeah.
I have it open as well.
Maybe if we have time at the end,
Okay.
maybe we can actually cheque it very
quickly. But for this, the wiki,
Okay.
this particular wiki has almost all
information and a few of the things were
Yeah.
actually outdated,
but yesterday I have tried to update all
the details over here.
And there is also one more thing that you
have to know, like before,
and so they have some particular,
so they had these enablement done in
on-premise. I am not so sure,
like CGTO had, okay,
that was an add-on system.
So CGTO had a separate add-on system,
and they have done this enablement in
on-premise.
And they were actually also trying to,
you know,
see whether they can do it in a different
way in public cloud to avoid, you know,
directly changing the course particular
objects. So, I mean,
just for your reference,
I am telling that the CGTO was already
enabled in on-premise in our own system.
And they also have certain system details
And.
provided,
but before entering to any of these
things, you have to also complete it.
training and for this is mandatory for
all CGTO members and attend the training
and then after the auto mail send their
mail to this particular person you will
and then you will be on boarded so then
only you will get access to their
Play.
particular system. I don't know.
like the most of the details,
but why they have this process,
but they had this process always.
So they always ask us to do this before
getting the permission to attend. I mean,
to look into their solution.
I have also mentioned who is the point of
contact for e-signature and who is the
point of contact for.
this app integration that is CGTO,
but I will also add some more details in
this because I was also in touch with
some more two more colleagues,
Yeah.
so I will also add those details.
And we have Labrex colleague, Rashad,
who is actually...
Is assigned to this GXP topic,
but in we had few changes that we have
done as a part of CGTO in the last
release,
but Rashad was not a part of that because
it was done by the previous colleague,
I can do it.
but Rashad got the handover from that
particular person and...
I will also mention the details.
I have already mentioned the details in
the presentation.
We can go to that after this particular
one,
but most of the details are already
available over here.
I just wanted to show you that.
Anyone had a question?
I just felt like someone raised a hand or.
No, I was having,
so I was just trying to understand if
this requirement of this e-signature,
right?
So we're also talking about the change
log and also is this requirement specific
from the industry that you are referring
to or it is decided by the SAP LOBs to
have this kind of requirement for that?
What industry is that?
No,
e-signature is not only needed by ECGTO,
but also for other industries which will
come in future,
which are related to which are coming
under this work stream, you know,
The.
whatever topics which are coming under
this GSP work stream,
all LOPs need e-signature as the base,
you know, that is the foundation, so...
That should be done.
All those, all those,
so not only specific to CGTO.
Okay.
And also, we have,
from the scope perspective,
we have decided to only go with the GUI
and not with the managed purchase order
Yes.
app or Fiori app. So, does that mean,
like, when CGTO comes into picture,
are we expecting them to use only the GUI
app,
not the managed purchase order app to
comply?
We have all it was decided together with
CG to actually because we mentioned like
Okay, okay.
what are the things that are supported,
what are the things that are not
supported managed purchase order app.
So at the end they only came up with like,
okay,
then let us do it on the web QA 1st and
then they will see.
Then we then we are also getting some
time.
For to see, like,
how our modernization UI coming into
picture and the APIs and everything,
so they were also like kind of hopeful
that, okay,
maybe in the new UI we can actually see
how it can be done.
This is already communicated,
and at least this part is...
Okay.
It is,
we made it very transparent to them, yes.
Mhm.
So this is about the bus stream one and
bus stream three related whatever
presentation that we had.
It is already uploaded over here.
And also some tests, private cloud,
which is the test system that they used.
Those kind of things are also actually
mentioned.
And but to get an access to that,
you need to actually complete the
training.
for CGTO. Then here,
this is about the change document testing
I.
that we have done in 2608.
They have provided an Excel with the list
of fields that have to be checked for the
change document.
This is actually completed from our site
and this is already informed them that,
okay, the change document is working fine.
And then later.
Okay, this is the work stream three,
which means that this is for the CGTO
specific.
We had a lot of discussions and all the
meetings and the recording of that ECD
review.
Everything is actually attached over here.
And okay,
so they also tried some POCs and then we
had a few discussions like what is the
what is the best approach that can be
done,
but I will come back to this part once I
go to the CGTO side because I will come
back to this last.
meeting minutes that I have shared over
here because this is the next step or
this is the latest update that we had and
but I will come back to this.
And also we had some discussion about the
UX side.
In the beginning they started with this
manage purchase order app but later we...
because managed purchase order app was
looking similar to the sales order app.
So they wanted to actually have a similar
approach.
So they started with this discussion,
but at the end,
we decided to do only for MU 21 in,
but sales order is anyway going ahead
with the same approach.
The customer, so this is actually,
I'm not aware about these details.
This is actually added by Ruediger.
So we can,
if you have any doubts about this last
part, we can cheque with Ruediger.
Maybe I will go back to this one because
I want to explain a bit more about, yeah,
so e-signature.
So the main part that we were involved in
was with the ACD review and the ACD
review was completed,
sign off was done by us at the end,
but we had a few open points.
Those open points were already addressed
to them. So we had a,
this is the MOM that I have attached.
In this one, yes, Rajesh.
This ACD comes from the platform team,
is it the digital signature and CGTO?
Yes, e-signature colleague.
So they had the solution in BTP and they
want to find how to integrate it and
integration layer,
everything have to be done.
And but they were not very sure.
So I had a lot of doubts about dual
integration,
how it can be stopped by the CGTO
customers if they are actually trying to
use.
APIs, how are you going to stop them?
Those kind of questions were there,
but we have already addressed it to them
and we have also documented it in the ECD
as well.
So this is where I have attached the
Mm.
meeting minutes,
but they told that they are already in
discussion about this particular topic
and they will come back to us whenever
there is any adoption needed from the
business, I mean, LOB side.
As of now,
there is no action item other than
Yeah.
enabling e-signature in another ME 21 N.
But this also, from engineering side,
I didn't get any information that, okay,
you can, okay,
everything is done from their side,
you can start now. That is not done.
Because maybe because 2608 is still
ongoing,
maybe tomorrow is the end of integration,
maybe after that we will get some.
some information from e-signature
colleagues is what I am expecting.
So maybe we can, one of,
we can get in touch with Sarda or someone
and then get some details about it,
whether there is any change in the plan
or something because we were not
contacted after that.
Okay,
so there is a roundtable that we go and
Yeah.
discuss with Swarnava and also CGTO
colleagues, right? So, yeah.
Oh, okay.
Is there a meeting request that you
shared with us?
Okay then.
I don't have it. So normally,
Ruediger forward to us whenever he needs
the ensuring colleagues involvement.
Otherwise, we don't have a direct, I mean,
we don't have a meeting,
recurring meeting request or something.
No, it is not there.
Yeah,
I believe Ruediger has shared it across
You said...
Rajesh Murturi.
I recall getting some memos.
Yeah.
I did forward to Chris Chris as well.
Do you recall, Chris,
Yeah.
any chance if we have a close by meeting
coming in?
Let me cheque on that, yeah.
Mhm.
No,
let's cheque with the Ruediger directly
once it's better that we know from him.
One more thing,
Yes.
this you said past meetings you have
recordings as well, right? So,
you had mentioned at the beginning of
this call,
is there some some team channel or
something that where you have stored this
recordings?
So that we can.
I have to be key wherever the engineering
colleagues were involved,
those meetings were recorded and that is
already addressed with this,
Mhm.
Okay.
but I am not so sure whether there was
there were any other meeting that
Ruediger had and whether there was any
other.
Not from Ruediger point of view,
whatever you have, you know,
if it's already attached, then it's OK.
Yeah, we'll look at it.
Yeah, Vivek, yes.
Okay, so e-signature,
we don't have much contact with them
because they were completely involved in
enabling it in S4 and they didn't come
back to us.
So that is after the ECD review and a few
discussion that we had,
then we were not having much contact with
them.
And Ruediger also mentioned that he was
not notified about anything after that.
CGTO we have,
so we this was in the POC phase for 2608.
So what they have done is they want to,
you know,
they have the solution in SaaS
application and they want to have like
seamless integration with the different
business subjects.
So they would like to extend their LOB
applications.
So there are some industry specific
fields that have to be supported and the
UI will be enhanced. And also if needed,
APIs level also if they want to do it,
APIs have to be enhanced.
And they also want to also trigger some
events, one the.
Maybe the some of the CRUD operations are
done,
they want to do some event triggering as
well, that has to be also done.
But we have not reached that level
because they were mostly,
we were mostly discussing how it can be
enabled in the API side and how the UI
can be enhanced.
This is the discussion that we are.
We had more actually.
So the CGTO extension was already done in
private cloud. In private cloud,
it was more done in an old style approach,
like where they were enhancing directly
in echo and echo,
and also they used the bodies,
but they had a few concerns that in
private cloud.
they were tightly coupled with the core
solution,
which they were also not liking it
because they had to any changes they have
to do.
They were in touch with the core
colleagues and everything.
And I think in private cloud,
they also had the problem because it has
a different system altogether.
But in public cloud,
they did the stack extension and now they
are part of S4 Core.
And now what they are trying to do is,
okay,
how can we enable these CGTO specific
fields once the e-signature is also in
place?
But I also found in between that they
also have to communicate much with
e-signature colleagues as well,
because they were also not aware about
that.
the character status when I asked.
But I think this can be clarified.
So in public cloud,
they want to try in a different approach,
like they want to have a different
business object altogether,
like at the header level and item level,
they need to have their own tables and
they want to integrate.
those fields in our UI.
So that is the approach that they are
trying.
So the ACD details are also attached and
their POC system is actually QG6 system
and that is the package that they are
using. But this one,
what we are also planning is that me and
Nils were discussing yesterday.
And we also decided that we will have a
kind of handover meeting with CGTO
colleagues and including you, all of you.
And then we can have a proper direct
discussion.
And then we also have to inform them that
there is a new team getting involved and
what is the current status because they
were doing POC and in the beginning of
May, we were in touch with them.
and they've shared us with the status,
like this is what they are doing,
but they also...
Currently, what is the current status?
I am not too sure.
So this is what we have to actually
clarify.
So we will have another kind of follow up
meeting,
but with CGTO colleagues is what we were
planning. Okay.
So this is one of the major part that we
were working on in 2608,
which is actually released in 2608.
If you see here,
the idea is that they will have,
CGTO would like to use this OData V4 API.
And the issue was that this was our OData
V4 API,
all these stacks were not marked as
extensible. So because of which,
they were not able to create extension.
Because they are planning to completely
separate the separate it from the core
logic,
they want to create this extended view
definitions and extended views and
everything,
so we had to enable extensibility.
This is what.
We have done,
but I think maybe I have to mention that
over here. So last 2608,
we have actually enabled extension at the
R layer, R purchase order, TP layer,
A purchase order underscore 2 layer,
and then also in the B definition,
service definitions as well,
we have done that.
And now CGTO colleagues will be able to
create the extension,
but now they are actually facing some
issue in some particular cases.
So this is what they are testing it as a
part of POC phase.
Once the APIs are extended,
they are also planning to extend the ME21
and Vivek,
because whatever changes they are doing
it.
they also want to view it in the UI.
So that is where they are doing ME21 and
extension. Okay,
so there was one of the meeting that,
so I have also attached the presentation
over here,
and the same presentation is also
attached in the wiki as well.
What they are trying to do is they are so
they are doing a separate extension
business subject and they are also trying
with native extension and now they are
comparing which is which is like better
architecture approach,
so they are trying both options, so.
This is the final outcome that we found.
I mean,
they found and they had shared with us,
but they are also checking whether a few
things can be improved and which approach
can be taken, those kind of things.
So here, if you see the attachment,
This is the presentation that they shared
with us.
on May 8th and after that they roll out
they will come back to us because we also,
Nils also mentioned that Nils will
contact the core colleagues,
I mean private cloud colleagues who have
more industry extensions and to see
whether these problems were occurred
before and how can we overcome that.
This is what we are.
trying to see and in parallel they were
also trying to proceed further with their
POCs as well. Okay,
so their issue was that, okay,
they tried both approaches,
separate wrap business subject and a
native extension as well.
And in one issue that they found is that.
The when they have a separate business
object,
that business object buffer data was not
available in the BAPI, sorry,
in the body in the process PO,
and this is actually a problem even when
they are doing the sales order creation
as well using the API.
They are having process and they are
having trouble with the buffer data.
So this is something now they are trying
to overcome with their different approach.
And this is actually still, they are,
they told that they will try this and
then get back to us. Same way.
So this is the API.
where we have actually made sure that
accessibility is enabled,
but the other part is actually completely
done by the CGTO colleagues.
They will be actually doing the
extensions and trying to see whether all
CRUD operations are working fine or not,
and they are also using our body,
ME process PO.
And then they are trying to see whether
they can trigger an event from here,
but this we never reached that event part
yet because we were still discussing up
the UI extensions and the thread
operations.
So they have to complete the POC and then
get back to us like how it is working and
is there any problem that they are.
So if they are saying that, okay,
this approach is not working, fine,
they are also expecting.
some more of our support as well,
like how this can be done. But in,
Nils mentioned that he will cheque with
the private cloud colleagues and then get
back to,
but first we have to see the result of
their POC and then we will proceed
further.
OK, and so OK,
then this was the one of the problem that
they have mentioned about the.
Yeah, the event triggering part,
I think we have not discussed this in
detail, but they also mentioned that this,
we will discuss it in detail in the next
meeting because the event part,
we didn't see the event triggering part
yet because we also wanted to know how
they are planning to do that.
This part is not discussed.
Okay.
We have,
this is the final summary that they have
provided,
but we discussed and we told that we will
have a separate meeting once their POC is
done to discuss the gap,
like whether there are any work around
that we can provide after checking with
the private cloud colleagues is what we
have to see.
And Nils is also planning to have any way
or one follow up meeting with them.
So at that end,
we will also include you so that it is
clear like what is the current status and
you will also know whether you have any
work from that side,
like whether we have to do.
on we have to do some enablement from our
side.
So I am again back in the wiki because
this is where this is the meeting.
And then we had the,
so why we are having these two approaches,
why we are trying these two approaches is
because.
CGTO colleagues were also in touch with
the verticalization experts,
so there is a verticalization council.
Now they were in touch with the industry,
this one to see how the industry
extensions can be enabled. Similar,
like also the country-specific colleagues,
like globalisation teams were also in
touch with the verticalization.
experts because there is no single,
you know, guideline which tells that,
okay,
industries can be on board at S4 in this
particular way.
There is no guideline provided by the
central teams.
So this is why they were in, I mean,
we were,
we also mentioned to CGTO colleagues that
they have to actually also get in touch
with the verticalization team.
Um, oh.
Excuse me,
are you still sharing the screen? Sorry,
at least I am not seeing the screen.
How are you?
What about others? Can you see?
Are you able to see it?
No.
No words, not able to.
Ohh, OK. When did you? OK, once again,
let me...
When you, when you came back to the Wiki,
that is when...
Okay.
Uh,
we the presentation was you were able to
see, is it?
Yeah, until the last presentation,
the final table that you showed.
After that,
you went back to the wiki that is when we
lost a screen sharing.
Okay.
Now is it working?
Because I am in the.
Not at.
No, OK,
let me let me disconnect and then try
No.
again.
Yes. Thank you.
Now I am switching to the wiki.
Let me know if you can still see.
I.
Can you see? Yes, so.
Yeah, yes.
This is the presentation that I have also
showed.
But we have not discussed that in detail
at that time.
We only saw the POC that was provided.
I mean,
they just showed us the POC and they
shared with us about some of the issues
that they are facing.
But we didn't go in detail because they...
yet to have to complete the POC.
Then they mentioned that there were a few
issues and when, okay,
there were one more,
there was one more issue.
When there is a header extension and an
item level extension,
this is working fine, but in item level,
they also had a requirement to have one
needs to end.
extension, which means that for one item,
several multiple rows.
So then there is an additional key coming
into picture,
which was actually not supported.
This is something we want to see,
like how it can be done.
So this was one of the open point.
And also this buffer.
related topic was also there and that and
event triggering is something they told
that the outbound events were failing so
we have to actually cheque what is the so
they cheque the native extension and the
separate business object and then at the
end they decided to mostly go for the
separate business object.
approach and this is what they have
almost decided,
but we also told that we will we can
discuss it in detail like once their POC
is completed. So this is the action item.
So Nils have to cheque with the
colleagues responsible for the one needs
to win approach and also lowering is the
conduct person.
from the CGTO side who is responsible for
the development part.
So he mentioned that he will continue
with the POC and then how this can be
actually solved.
This is what they are actually trying to
see.
And I will anyway talk with Nils about.
this,
like whether this is already confirmed,
whether there was a new response.
So this has to be anyway. So anyway,
we will have a follow up meeting with the
loading and team, and at that time,
we will anyway have a detailed discussion.
Yeah.
Then I have this all the contact details
for each who was in touch with and also
who all are involved.
So I have also provided the details and
all other details I tried to put
everything in the GXP wiki.
I will also share the slide and these are
the ECD link for.
E-signature and CGTO,
and I would also recommend you to go
through that, but not in so detail,
because e-signature has a lot of topics
other than LOB specific,
so you can mainly concentrate on the LOB
specific extension part and everything,
yeah.
No, I think we are done.
I mean the contacts,
do you know who's playing engineering and
who's playing PM role?
Yeah, so for CGTO,
I think it is lowering is doing the
engineering side.
I think Satish is from PM side and
Okay.
Viswanath is from the architecture side.
Okay.
Ohh, there was one more.
OK, I OK, no, I'm mixing up. Yeah,
this is correct.
So Vishal is from architecture side,
and for e-signature,
so is there from the I guess PM side,
and the Karthik is from the architecture
side.
Okay, thanks.
Yeah, so we,
I will get back anyway tomorrow we have
meeting for the next topic and then I
guess Nils will be out attending fully,
so we can also, if we get time at the end,
we can also cover this question about
Okay.
this,
like about whether he was in touch with
the private colleagues or not.
Those kind of questions can be asked and
we can.
kind of conclude it.
And we will also have a follow meeting
Thank you.
with the CGT colleagues because that is
where we are having back-to-back contact.
Everything.
At the VC signature, we are not sure.
We have to cheque what is the status with
the signature colleagues. Okay.
Anything else? Sorry I took more time,
but I thought it is better to finish it.
Yeah, thanks a lot.
Yeah, thanks. Just from our side as well.
So a bit on understanding on the effort
aspect,
just because I looked into the chair of
the initial documentation and it
mentioned an estimate around 700 PD for a
signature Enablement and but the handover.
notes mention ongoing JXP with 25 PD from
Waldorf and 75 PD from the receiving team
for the signature and CGTU enhancement
support and testing.
So just wanted to understand how the
efforts has been phased out or whether
was there a split or I am unable to how
these estimates are relating to.
To each other,
if you can just give a bit of, yeah.
So 700 PD,
I'm not so sure from where it came.
I'm not aware about that, Shweta.
But the other one,
Mhm, mhm.
I think I was involved because I guess
e-signature, anyway,
there is some development effort from our
side. But CGTO, we are not sure yet.
Okay.
You know, like we have for Ender GXP,
we have around calculated 100 PD for 20s,
I mean from this release, 2702,
because from CGTO side,
Yes.
we are not yet sure whether we need to do
any changes from our side or not.
Yeah,
so unless and until they come back to us
with the POC and then find what are the
gaps we have and whether there is any
other way to overcome that particular gap
is what we have to see. Otherwise,
when CGTO, I am only,
we may only plan for some hours for the
Right.
discussions, you know,
architecture discussions.
Everything.
Uh, but you see this aside, yeah,
definitely there is an implementation
effort, um, I think.
Mm.
This is why it is around 100 PD, I guess.
100. Okay.
No.
So we are planning on the GX,
I mean signature, right? So it's not CHDO.
Development perspective,
e-signature is there for the development
side. But CGT, I mean,
once we confirm it with the e-signature
colleagues that, okay,
everything is in place.
But for the CGTO side,
we can't decide it yet unless and until
we know what is the gap.
Because this...
And even if we come to know something,
then it will be beyond 2702.
So, when I asked Ruediger,
Ruediger mentioned that, yeah,
the increased effort is what he has
mentioned,
so it won't be anyway 700 for sure,
so I'm not expecting that much,
but I don't know from where the 700 is
coming from.
Okay,
so then maybe we could also re-estimate
based on the understanding from the
handover today and of course evolving
Yes, yes.
discussions are just and right.
So and then now we can also see if we
Because once we have meeting,
once we have meeting with e-signature,
have to do. Yeah.
I mean,
we may have to get an information from
Yep.
Yes.
e-signature, whether they are ready,
then you can immediately start with the
Uh-huh.
e-signature implementation, then CGTO,
we have to actually cheque with them,
what is the status of that POC,
what is the gap?
And then we have to see only to overcome
that gap.
what can be done.
Then that then there is an development
Mhm.
involved from our side at the VCGTO.
Mostly we have discussions and you know,
we are providing them the body details
and other some examples,
Thank you.
those kind of things mostly.
Okay.
Yes, okay. Actually,
I have another meeting.
The.
So if you have any questions further,
maybe we can take it up in tomorrow's
meeting after the towards the end of the
call. Is that fine?
Good.
A.
Yeah.
Yeah, sure, sure.
Thank you for this session and definitely
Okay.
walking us through the current status in
the background.
I think that gives a good understanding.
But we'll take some time to review and
Yes.
Beautiful.
Okay.
build our understanding and definitely
follow up questions from our side. Thanks,
Sure, sure, no problem. No problem.
We also include Nils and Ruediger as well.
thanks again. All right, okay.
So I think we can then have,
and if needed, we can have a call as well.
If we have a lot of questions,
we can also have a follow up call.
No problem with that. Okay.
All right, yeah. Thank you. Thanks.
Thanks, everyone. Thank you. Bye. Bye.
Okay, thank you so much. Thank you, bye.
Thank you.
Thank you, bye.
Thanks.